In this paper, we propose a system that allows users to
manipulate clothing patterns to desired positions of human
models by four predefined operations of move, rotate, fix and
drag. We adopt a physical-based modeling of clothing patterns
that can stretch and bend due to shape changes of the body
surface. It provides accurate pre-positioning that ensures very
short distances of seam line particles before and after the sewing
process. With the proposed method, we do not need to make any
assumptions about the postures of the human models. Moreover,
users are allowed to adjust patterns and garment positions during
the virtual sewing process, which makes the trying on of complex
styles with multiple seams possible. As aforementioned, our
proposed systems are physical-based, and the reasons why realtime
simulation is possible in our approach are twofold. First, a
hierarchy of ellipsoid bounding volumes is used to approximate the
human body, and this method bounds the human body tightly [7].
The method also detects contacts/collisions between garment and
the human model more efficiently. Second, our physical simulation
is based on the StoermerVerlet numerical integration scheme that
simplifies the collision responses by geometrical based correction
of position. Our method is efficient and robust, enabling the trying
on of different garment types. The proposed method is physically
faithful because high-quality physical simulation is performed to
visualize the drape effects once the garments are `tried on'.
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. First, Section 2
gives a retrospective view of past work in clothing simulation
and clothing CAD. In Section 3 we briefly outline how our realtime
system works. Then, the proposed method is explained in
detail. Section 4 describes the method of volume segmentation and
bounding volume computation for a human model. Section 5 is
dedicated to a presentation of the collision detection and collision
response with ellipsoids, and also the corresponding contact
friction models. Next, Section 6 introduces the four types of user
manipulation. The physical model of clothing and the numerical
integration scheme are explained in Section 7 and, finally, the
experimental results are given in Section 8.